## Code Fellows 401

### Day 27 Notes

[Home](../README.md)

#### Reading

[Using Models](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/Server-side/Django/Models)

[Django Admin](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/Server-side/Django/Admin_site)

Advanced configuration section is optional

The tutorial is really good but some of the tools are dated so when reading try to understand the concepts more than the code.

(Optional): [Beginner’s Guide to Django - Part 1](https://simpleisbetterthancomplex.com/series/2017/09/04/a-complete-beginners-guide-to-django-part-1.html)

Bookmark and Review
[Beginner’s Guide to Django - Part 2](https://simpleisbetterthancomplex.com/series/2017/09/11/a-complete-beginners-guide-to-django-part-2.html)

## Things I want to know more about

* The article is about using models in the Django web framework.
* Models in Django are Python classes that define fields and behaviors of the data that will be stored in the database.
* Each model represents a single table in the database, and each attribute of the model represents a column in that table.
* Django provides a built-in ORM (Object-Relational Mapper) that allows you to interact with the database using Python code instead of SQL.
* You can create a model by defining a Python class that inherits from the django.db.models.Model class.
* You can define fields for the model by adding attributes to the class and setting them to the appropriate field type.
* You can also define relationships between models, such as one-to-many and many-to-many, using fields such as ForeignKey and ManyToManyField.
* Once you have defined your models, you can use the Django ORM to create, read, update, and delete records in the database using Python code.