## Code Fellows 201

### Day 03 Notes

[Home](README.md)

### Reading
### Learn HTML
Ordered and Unordered lists.

#### When should you use an unordered list in your HTML document?
* The \<ul> element is for grouping a collection of items that do not have a numerical ordering, and their order in the list is meaningless. Typically, unordered-list items are displayed with a bullet, which can be of several forms, like a dot, a circle, or a square. The bullet style is not defined in the HTML description of the page, but in its associated CSS, using the list-style-type property.

#### How do you change the bullet style of unordered list items?
* type: This attribute sets the bullet style for the list. The values defined under HTML3.2 and the transitional version of HTML 4.0/4.01 are:
  * circle
  * disc
  * square
  * triangle - A fourth bullet type has been defined in the WebTV interface, but not all browsers support it.

If not present and if no CSS list-style-type property applies to the element, the user agent selects a bullet type depending on the nesting level of the list

#### When should you use an ordered list vs an unorder list in your HTML document?

* When order matters such as a, b, c, d or 1, 2, 3, 4

#### Describe two ways you can change the numbers on list items provided by an ordered list?

* type: Sets the numbering type:

  * a for lowercase letters
  * A for uppercase letters
  * i for lowercase Roman numerals
  * I for uppercase Roman numerals
  * 1 for numbers (default)
The specified type is used for the entire list unless a different type attribute is used on an enclosed \<li> element.

### Learn CSS
The Box Model.

#### Describe the CSS properties of margin and padding as characters in a story. What is their role in a story titled: “The Box Model”?
* Padding box: The padding sits around the content as white space; size it using padding and related properties.

* Border box: The border box wraps the content and any padding; size it using border and related properties.

#### List and describe the four parts of an HTML elements box as referred to by the box model.
* Making up a block box in CSS we have the:

  * Content box: The area where your content is displayed; size it using properties like inline-size and block-size or width and height.
  * Padding box: The padding sits around the content as white space; size it using padding and related properties.
  * Border box: The border box wraps the content and any padding; size it using border and related properties.
  * Margin box: The margin is the outermost layer, wrapping the content, padding, and border as whitespace between this box and other elements; size it using margin and related properties.

### Learn JS
Arrays. Operators and Expressions. Conditionals. Loops.

#### What data types can you store inside of an Array?
* In an array we can store various data types — strings, numbers, objects, and even other arrays. We can also mix data types in a single array — we do not have to limit ourselves to storing only numbers in one array, and in another only strings. 

#### Is the people array a valid JavaScript array? If so, how can I access the values stored? If not, why?

* Yes, simply reference the row index first then item index, or vertical then horizontal.  So Smith is people[1][0]; accountant would be [1][2]

const people = [['pete', 32, 'librarian', null], ['Smith', 40, 'accountant', 'fishing:hiking:rock_climbing'], ['bill', null, 'artist', null]];

#### List five shorthand operators for assignment in javascript and describe what they do.
* Assignment	x = f()	means: x = f()
* Addition assignment	x += f()	means x = x + f()
* Subtraction assignment	x -= f()	means x = x - f()
* Multiplication assignment	x *= f()	means x = x * f()
* Division assignment	x /= f()	means x = x / f()


#### Read the code below and evaluate the last expression and explain what the result would be and why.

 let a = 10;
 let b = 'dog';
 let c = false;

 // evaluate this
 (a + c) + b;
 
 The result would be **10dog** because c is a boolean value and will not print (return a value to console with other data types) and a and b are different data typs so they are simple concanated.

#### Describe a real world example of when a conditional statement should be used in a JavaScript program.
* Anytime you need to have the algorithim make a choice, such as making sure a prompt is not empty.

#### Give an example of when a Loop is useful in JavaScript.
* loops are useful when you know how many times code must run; such as looping through an array to find a value within the array
